# PolyEDM

We are building an experiment to search for the electron's electric dipole moment in laser-cooled and trapped polyatomic molecules.  These molecules offer robust systematic error rejection via internal co-magnetometer states, and provide a route to explore PeV-scale CP-violating physics.

Searches for the electron EDM depend on the ability to perform spin precession measurements with long interaction time and large numbers.  Both of these can be achieved with laser-cooled and trapped neutral polyatomic molecules, which also offer robust systematic error rejection techniques via internal co-magnetometer states.  The rapid advances in laser cooling of diatomic and polyatomic molecules have made such an experiment within reach, and will enable significant increases is sensitivity.  As an example, consider 106 heavy, eEDM-sensitive molecules in optical trap with 10 s coherence time.  After 1 week of integration, such an experiment will have sensitivity to CP-violating physics at the PeV scale.  This is beyond the reach of conceivable accelerators.  The ability to combine long coherence time, large numbers, internal co-magnetometers, and the ability to further enhance sensitivity via quantum control techniques is unique to polyatomic molecules.

This software was written by myself and a graduate student at the University of Toronto to investigate the different excitation levels for molecules such as YbOH and BaFAr. Together, we were able to discover and study discretized energy levels unseen before.
